habitat 

diet 

behaviour 

750-100 words 
summary 
eastern bluebird
is he most common

cannot copy text word for word 
only use it as background material

research on 3 other platforms 

properly cite the urls you use in the about.html page

do not copy and paste any text all words must be your own 

At least 2 photos 

At least 1 video use video element or iframe

1 audio element in your page using the audio element
if you cannot appropriate audid use an audio file from a band 
etc with a similar name to your species 



source 1 
https://www.inaturalist.org/taxa/12942-Sialia-sialis
Source 2 
https://www.audubon.org/field-guide/bird/eastern-bluebird
source 3 
https://www.sialis.org/diet.htm
source 4
https://extension.psu.edu/managing-habitat-for-eastern-bluebirds
source 5 
https://portal.ct.gov/DEEP/Wildlife/Fact-Sheets/Eastern-Bluebird
source 6 
https://a-z-animals.com/blog/eastern-bluebird-male-vs-female-how-to-tell-them-apart/


previously placed in the Motacilla sialis class
currently placed in the genus sialia class


16-21 cm height 
weight 27-34 g 


male
light exterior (color)
auburn upper - mid section


female 
lighter than males
gray head and back 
blue on wings on tail 
upper mid section looks more orange 
than male


habitat 
-east of the rocky mountains 
warmer months 
-pastures 
-suburban parks 
-backyards 
-golf courses 
-cemeteries
-swamps 
farms lands
roadsides 
-cavities for nesting
-east north america 
to nicaragua
-areas with many perches and shrubs 
(definee perch)
-areas with shallow water for bathing 
-nest in cavities in trees


Behaviour 
-social
-territorial (feeding area winter not enough food)
-travel in herds (sometimes greater than 100)



Breeding 
-mate during the warmer seasons 
spring and summer
-breeding occurs in april 
-female 6-8 eggs (pale-blue)
hatch within 2 weeks time span 
offspring are cared for by both parents
approximately 2 to 3 weeks 



-offspring 
grey color 
spekcled exteriour
fades as they age 
eat meal worms exclusively



lifespan
-6-10 years 
-most last 1 year 
-scant food supply 
-harsh weather conditions 
-other animals and humans 
cause the bluebird to have a shorter 
lifespan by destroying their homes 
and eggs 



some animals that will disrupt their habitat
-invasive species 
-flying squierrels 
-american black bears 
-fire ants 
-raccoons



prey to 

-falcons 
-owls 
-hawks
-sing when preditors are nearby 
(sing softly and with succession) (warble)
to attract male birds to return
them to their territory



incorrect placement of perches (and bluebird boxes?)
will attract foreign invaders
(other birds ) to hunt the blue birds 
to prevent blue birds from being hunted 
use (preidator Guards) picture explain this 

pesticides 
insuficient food suply
competing with other bird species

urbanization inhibts reproduction


diet
balanced diet

avoid birdseed 
-unable to digest seeds 
seed exceptions 
sunflower hearts/chips
crushed peanuts/nuts 
and occasionally black sunflower seeds in the hull and safflower seeds
bluebirds may consume these foods during harsh weather conditions 
-winter


-insects 
majority of bluebird diet 
{
preference
-grasshopers 
-crickets
-katydids
-beetles
-earthworms
-spiders
-millipedes
-centipedes
-sowbugs 
-snails 
}

nesting season diet comprises mainly insects to feed offspring 
nestlings(baby) fed mainly cataphillars grasshopers and spiders 
-wildfruits and berries  *especially in the winter
... flowering dogwood 
remainder of diet   (cooler seasons these become main foods)
{
    fruits 
...holly                    include pictures of these fruits
...mulberry
...wild grape
...virginia creeper
... pokeweed
...viburnum
}



How do they hunt for food? 
wait in high places 
-branches
-posts
fly down and attack
-sometimes they can hunt airborne insects 
-

if food supply is limited in the winter 
-migrate where?
-areas where nestboxes are available
-may remain in the same habitat through the winter
-travel north as far as oregon 
-to new england south?


-if food supply is sufficient
travel to areas comprising manifold bushes 
and fruit trees



website structure

The eastern bluebird <h1>? 

Overview            <h2>? underline ? bold?  
The eastern bluebird is the most common type of blue bird.          <p>tag?  
The eastern bluebird is native to North America and was discovered by a swedish botanist named carl linnaeus <anchor link?> to carl linnaeus and the other botanist?.
Carl linnaeus assigned the binomial name Montacilla sialis to the eastern bluebird (define binomail name) in 1958. Today, the eastern bluebird is listed under the name Genus sialia. The binomial name Genus sialia was invented by a New Zealand botanist named William John Swainson(define Genus). 
Eastern bluebirds are decreasing in number due to urbanization, lack of nesting cavities, and invasion of foreign species such as sparrows and harlings.
(picture of nesting cavity).
 However, their population is steadily growing due to the increasing number of bird boxes and trails humans are building.



Description
There are subtle differences between the males and the females. 
Male eastern bluebirds have a light exterior.
Their heads and wings are light blue amd their mid section is auburn in color.
Typically, the males weigh 0.09-1.1 oz and their height ranges from 6 to 8 inches. The males assist with raising offspring but will not build nests.
They also protect their offspring from preditors some being: hawks, sparrows, racoons, and falcons.

(show a picture comparing the two genders)

Female eastern bluebirds have a bluish grey exterior and they are lighter than their male counterparts. Their head, shoulders, and wings are of a lighter blue and their wings are shorter. Females are usually heavier than the males and weigh 1.02 to 1.13 oz. Females are 6.3 to 8.3 inches tall and their mid section is more orange than males. The females are responsible for traveling out of their habitat to aquire resources in order to build nests for their offspring. They usually lay about 4-7 pale blue eggs.

Babies (offspring)
grey color 
spekcled exteriour
fades as they age 

Diet
Eastern blubirds adhere to an omnivorus diet.
The diet consists insects such as grasshopers,
crickets, katydids, beetles, earthworms, spiders,millipedes
centipedes, sowbugs, and snails. 
The fruits they eat are: 
holly, mulberry, wild grape, virginia creeper, pokeweed
and viburnum.
They avoid birdseed since they are unable to digest seeds. However there are a few exceptions: 
sunflower seeds crushed peanuts and nuts, black sunflower seeds,
and safflower seeds.
bluebirds may consume these foods during harsh weather conditions eg.. 
winter
During the colder seasons, the bluebirds consume more fruits than insects. Bluebirds hunt their prey by waiting in high places such as branches and posts. Once their target has been identified, they fly down and attack and sometimes they will hunt airborne insects. 
Babyblue birds are fed a diet which consists of mainly protiens.


lifespan
Bluebirds usually live 6 to 10 years.
However, most only last one year because of harsh weaher conditions 
and scant food supply. Eastern bluebirds don't live as long as they should since they are constantly being hunted by other species such as hawks, and sparrows. Urbanization has also played a role in the decreasing population of eastern bluebirds. Through urbanization, their eggs and habitat is destroyed. To increase the population of eastern bluebirds, shrubs should be planted and bird boxes should be installed at the correct heights in order to protect them against invaders that will destroy their habitat and eggs.
To ensure bird boxes are at the correct height, preditor guards should be used.
(show picture of a preditor guard?)




Behaviour 
-social
-territorial (feeding area winter not enough food)
-travel in herds (sometimes greater than 100)




Habitat

